We've talked about directives,
let's talk about services.
And a service is generally more
often than not just a class.
And this applies to
more than just Angular.
You should do one specific thing, and so
you want to have single
purpose fine grained services.
As well, and I feel like this
deserves its own slide but
I'm going to just say it here,
is that your
component should do two things and
only two things.
One, consume just enough data
to render its templates,
capture user events, and
then delegate that elsewhere.
The reason why I bring that up here
is because your business logic
needs to happen outside of the component,
which happens inside of a service.
So your services end up you
have very very razor thin
components in these kind
of rich domain models.
That are built out via services
elsewhere in the application.
So the burden of business
logic is alleviated off of
the component shoulders
input into services.
It is considered best practice to
always use injectable with a service so
that the metadata is generated correctly.
If you generate a service from the CLI,
this is what you're going to get.
I can't think of any reason not to do it.
So just do it.
Also by using the provideIn root property,
which,
if you generate a service from the CLI,
it's going to have this in here.
What you're doing is you're specifying
that Angular should provide or
make that service available
to the root injector.
So, there is this concept of
being able to make a service
only available to a specific kind of
subtree or slice of an application.
Again, this would be the exception,
not the rule.
And so to make things easier that before
you would have to essentially explicitly
define your services in kind of every
single module or even to the point of one
point, even if a component used to
service you had to inject it in.
But by using provideIn root that makes
it available to the root injector
which makes it a lot easier to wire
it up into your main application.
So what we have here injectable
you can see here providedeIn root,
so we're just calling
the injectable Decorator, and
we're saying make this
available to the root injector.
And under the hood,
it looks very much like a component and
that we have properties
methods in the constructor.
In this case we're injecting HTTP client.
Which I think it's probably not too hard
to figure out that this is responsible for
communicating with a courses API and
fetching all of the courses.
But the main thing here is injectable
metadata provided in root.
So now it's available for everything.
Because it's in the root injector.
The question is, if you provided in root,
where else can you provide
a service if I'm not mistaken?
I think that's the question
like what are the other cases?
And so
you actually answered your question in
that you can provide it
into the root injector.
So it's available for everything or
you can provide it and
make it available specifically for
like some kind of a sub module.
And so where that gets interesting is,
let's say you have a users service.
But you have two branches of
the application that depending on,
let's say, your access level,
that the business rules that govern how
you're able to interact with
the application are totally different.
And so this is one of the beautiful
things about dependency injection,
is that you might have like an employee
user service to where if you're on this
tree of the application you get a specific
user service that has business logic for
a say employees.
Then let's say you have
like a contractor You know,
business logic that's totally different.
And so what you would do then
is you would converge on like
a naming convention of user service,
but then under the hood,
depending on where somebody is,
you would just swap out that service.
And then somebody would just get
that specific functionality.
So, imagine you program,
let's say five services to an interface.
And then depending on where you are,
you can inject the appropriate service for
that particular module.
Or even at a component level,
you can override a service being injected.
So actually, the injector is every
component even has access to
the injector and you can override
that essentially at runtime,
which by the way, when we get into
testing we do quite frequently.
So, that is the use case,
is that you want to provide one version of
the service to maybe one part of
the application or all the application.
But let's say in a sub part of it that
you want to actually override it and
you want to keep the interface and all
the naming convention the same you just
want to use a different version of that